so the Internet has lost its mind
[Music]
[Applause]
I include myself in that description
I cannot open my YouTube homepage
without a flood of angry gameofthrones
hot takes and Here I am a month late to
the conversation just adding to that
deluge and I'm sorry but you know
sometimes you've got some feelings and
you just you just gotta monetize them
how did this cultural landmark one of
the most popular television shows in
history critical darling and commercial
success a show that unequivocally
changed the way television was made in
does such a trash fire it's not like
there was a change in the creative heads
the show runners were always the same
cast was almost uniformly the same so
like what the hell so this is yet
another autopsy on what I think the hell
happened and for the most part I'm going
to keep this to a discussion of the TV
show we could get into discussions of
author intentionality and adaptation but
I'm gonna stop you right there because I
don't care this is an adaptation
therefore every creative decision should
stand on its own regardless of whether
it was in the books or not or how you
think george RR martin is going to go
with it whatever because the books
aren't done yet the show is what your
whingeing about I'm not winded your lips
are moving and you're complaining about
something that's winning the most common
talking point in the wake of the finale
of Game of Thrones is that the writing
was bad so with the popular thing always
comes controversy and Game of Thrones
was no exception from day one we had hot
tapes about its portrayal of gender
about its portrayal of race sexual
violence exploitation you name it your
mileage may vary on how much you're
willing to put up with I was willing to
roll with the problematic elements you
know not ignore them but he accept them
but the critique of sexism
and racism in media is not not relevant
to the discussion of bad writing we need
to fold the stereotyping near being lazy
and thoughtless which generally makes
for bad or at least uninteresting
writing dwarfs have mad hops for more on
that see the bright episode fairy lives
don't matter today but at the same time
no piece of media is ever going to be
ideologically pure and it's unrealistic
to expect that critics and fans alike
have been discussing the problematic
elements of Game of Thrones since the
day it debuted for some they wore too
much
and these people stopped watching I know
a lot of these people for others people
like me they digested it yep these Suns
is getting raped and phione has to watch
[Applause]
but we accepted it and continued to
watch because hey surely this is leading
up to something riveting or at least
poignant
[Music]
[Applause]
it's not like critique of Game of
Thrones is anything new but it's it's
different now before it was about like
how the thing is problematic we're not
talking Kings on it so that you can rape
the Queen I'm not going to rape her I'm
going to [__] it for when is it okay to
have a rape scene now the discussion is
more about like structure and planting
and payoff and character development and
screenwriting and audience expectations
and subverting expectations so Bronn of
the Blackwater Lord of Highgarden Lord
paramount of the region master of coin
but there's more to it than that in fan
culture in general especially for a
long-running beloved series like Game of
Thrones we may eventually run into the
which might make you defend a thing way
longer than you should have after all
you've watched and re-watched all of the
seasons multiple times you have a
dedicated Twitter account just for live
tweeting Game of Thrones yeah okay
everyone can fast travel all of a sudden
when distance was a huge tactical
consideration in early seasons but
whatever it's fine I'm fine I'm sure
this is because the story needs to head
somewhere important season seven wasn't
bad
they were just building up to something
cool give them a chance what I hear
really often probably even more often
than I don't watch the show is I stopped
watching the show usually around season
five when it really started to go off
the rails but either way don't worry
we're going to do a quick recap for the
benefit of the people who stopped
watching the show who never watched the
show and probably the people who
everyone needs a quick recap anyway and
by quick I mean about half the runtime
of this video and I'm also about to
steal a lot of jokes from GAE of Thrones
so sorry Jonathan Van Ness you're just
too difficult not to steal from strap in
season 1 basically a murder mystery
surrounding the line of succession for
the Iron Throne after the last hand of
the King dies and if the king is
basically like the Grand Vizier let's
say she says Jon Arryn was murdered
episode 1 ends with a child witnessing
some incest and Prince Charming from
Shrek 2 aka brother Dee pushing the
child out of a window presumably to kill
him but he fails the King asked Sean
Bean to be the new hand of the king
after the old one dies mysteriously so
he goes to King's Landing with his two
daughters he engaged his daughter Sansa
to the evil Prince she's thrilled
but eventually Sean Bean discovers that
the princess the incest bastard of Lena
Headey and brother Dee Robert Baratheon
black of hair
Joffrey Baratheon
golden hand and not the legitimate son
of the King Bobby be turned out you were
then the King's too fat for his armor go
find the breastplate stretcher but Bobby
bee dies Sean Bean gets beheaded and a
big ol war begins Sean beans people
fighting for independence and everyone
else fighting for the throne and also
Lord Life Alert over here is like hey
I'm in the war too but nobody cares
daughter Sansa becomes a captive other
daughter Arya escaped and is angry
meanwhile across the sea the deposed
king's daughter Daenerys gets married
off to this guy and raped but then her
husband learns to respect her it's fine
Kovu said she Sani softly victim but oh
no he's dead and but then she gets some
dragons and up north Jon Snow discovers
some I saw bees season two big ol war
for succession
Bobby beef has two brothers Plus and
bread bastard King plus Sean Bean son
and also Lord of the no one cares the
islands is like hey I'm in the war too
but nobody cares ending in a big battle
led by Peter Dinklage evil inbred
bastard Kings side wins but Charles
dances the real power behind the throne
and also the best character in
television history do not at me he just
is meanwhile Sean beans people are
winning the war for independence and
Sean Bean jr. is supposed to marry Lord
lie flirts daughter but then he marries
Oona Chaplin instead fun fact that's
Charlie Chaplin's great-granddaughter up
north more zombies season 3
no one is grateful to Peter Dinklage for
his role in the big battle ah well he
gets to be secretary of the Treasury
anyway Arya is still angry Sansa is no
longer evil inbred bastard Kings fiancee
Natalie Dormer is Arya is kidnapped by
this guy he's called the Hound
don't worry he's great brother D had a
genuinely wonderful redemption arc with
Captain phasma seriously it's some of
the best television in all of the
television Sean Bean Junior's campaign
is no longer going so well
they plan to Wed a different Lord - Lord
Life Alert solder that Sean Bean jr. was
supposed to marry but instead the
wedding ends in a massacre and the whole
family is slaughtered this is the
infamous red wedding the war for
northern independence it's over across
the sea Daenerys has been using those
dragons to live
right a bunch of slaves season ends with
her big white Savior moment season four
evylyn bread bastard King has poisoned
at his own wedding Peter Dinklage is
framed for it
Sansa escapes to the north with the help
of totally trustworthy you know I'm just
going to steal another thing from GAE of
Thrones vintage Alan [__] doe-eyed
inbred bastard King is now king Natalie
Dormer is engaged to him after a rigged
trial Tyrion demands a trial by combat
which goes well for him until it doesn't
his brother Dee sneaks him out of the
city but not before he murders Charles
dance and also his girlfriend but don't
worry he's still totally sympathetic
Arya's travel companion the Hound loses
in battle to Captain phasma she escapes
him and decides to leave the country to
go to assassin school up north there's a
battle between these people who are
trying to escape the eyes zombies and
the border patrol Jon Snow is a part of
his love interest dies Daenerys conquers
another slave city and decides to rule
it instead of coming to Westeros child
who was pushed out of the window in
season one he's like learning omniscient
mind powers from Max von Sydow
season 5 tyrion with the help of lord
dr. evil is running around SOS trying to
find Daenerys Cersei tries to exploit
rising religious extremism in the
capital which oops really backfires on
her once they find out about all those
inbred bastard kings there's a really
dumb subplot involving this guy's people
that gets dropped the following season
it's awful you want to good good but you
need thanks Bobby B's brother the guy
with the strongest claim to the throne
burns his daughter to death because he
thinks that will give him some fire
magic to win a battle it doesn't
congratulations you played yourself
Aria goes to ninja school decides it
isn't for her and leaves Daenerys is bad
at ruling a city whose culture she does
not understand her dragons are unruly
she's bad at everything eventually
there's a pro-slavery billion she almost
gets killed but don't worry her main
dragon saves her his name is drogon Jon
Snow tries to help the free folk they
were battling in the previous season
because it turns out those ice zombies
are raising an army of regular zombies
and the more dead bodies they have the
bigger their army gets his Border Patrol
brother stabbed him to death because
they don't like that he's helping the
foreigners he's dead
Sansa you've known Sansa since she was a
girl
now watch her become a woman so here is
where we pretty much completely run out
of books to adapt season six
Jon Snow gets resurrected by the woman
who talked Bobby Lee's brother into
burning his daughter alive Daenerys is
captured by the people she married into
in season one and is forced into
captivity with the other call widows but
manages to wow them all by murdering all
of their kings of fire but you know she
herself is immune to being set on fire
which means she's the call now because
that's how their society works so she
reunites with her dragons and manages to
do one-two punch of liberating marine
from the pro slave rebellion Lord of the
no one cares island gets thrown off a
bridge by Hot Topic pirate aka the worst
character in the show and I go to kite
event right over and give it to Daenerys
Targaryen along with my big [__] or
possibly any show arya murders the
entire house of Lord Life Alert and then
feeds them to him and then killed Lord
Life Alert tyrion becomes hand of the
queen for some goddamn reason I don't
know probably because he's played by
Peter Dinklage then it's off to Westeros
for Dany and her entourage with the help
of Lord no one cares island
and the iron fleet which I haven't
mentioned yet but they're about to get
real frustrating
Sansa escapes and reunites with Jon Snow
they reclaimed Winterfell for the Starks
and feed my eyes will never harm me
seven days to his dogs is an empowering
feminist moment oh and Cersei blows up
the Vatican wipes out their religious
extremists and her adversaries in the
aristocracy and parks herself at the
balcony drinking wine where she will
stay for the next two seasons but not
before her last child kills himself
season seven okay it's about to get
really dumb it's a pretty song I've
never heard it before it's a new one we
Daenerys and Jon Snow have a meet-cute I
mean no offense your grace but I don't
know you in the time since he's met me
he's refused to call me queen he's
refused to bow and now he's calling me a
child
I believe he's calling all this figures
they spend most of the season faffing
around whether Jon Snow will bend the
knee bend the knee bend the knee
bend the knee on behalf of the north
after he helps Dany take the throne
debate about whether or not to fight the
White Walkers or go after Cersei first
Daenerys battles the Lannisters a bit
Jon Snow and Daenerys and then okay this
is this is where it gets really done all
right so everyone is like hey the big
existential threat is the ice zombies
how do we convince Cersei to like stop
fighting us so we can deal with the
existential zombie threat I know let's
send the Magnificent Seven north of the
wall to get like a sample zombie so they
do that and it is the dumbest thing but
you like me are willing to give these
showrunners the benefit of the doubt
like oh boy you know they're just doing
this dumb thing to get to the good stuff
so they get stuck and Bobby beauty's
bastard son has to go do it chariots of
fire and send a note to Daenerys to
please come save us which she does
risking her life to do so but loses a
goddamn dragon in the process but
whatever she saves their asses and it is
here only after she risked her life and
lost a goddamn dragon that John is like
okay I will bend the knee and Daenerys
is like okay well I already ate some
humble pie to save you so I hope I am
worthy of this because I know this is a
big deal not only for you but you know
for Humanity to you know survive so then
they fast travel to King's Landing and
show Cersei the zombie and they're like
trust us I know this is just one but
there's a lot of these and so he's like
oh okay truce and also I will send
soldiers to help you fight the ice
zombies but guess what she's lying
you touched our forces to fight shout
coming in say whatever I need to say to
ensure they survive in my house and it
is only then that brother Dee's like no
I think I've had enough of your
conniving and evil and blowing up st.
Peter's Basilica so this whole stupid
subplot was not only a total waste of
time but they lost their resurrection
expert and gave the night King a goddamn
dragon in the process go team season 8
episode 1 everyone arrives at Winterfell
Cersei [__] hot-topic pirate the North
is racist I guess episode 2 zombies are
coming oh no a lot of dialogue basically
reads like a big send-off to all our
favorite characters
this will go down in history as the last
decent episode of Game of Thrones and
also a massive waste of time that gets
totally shat upon later oh it also turns
out that Jon Snow is not a bastard but
is in fact the rightful heir to the
throne
my real name is Ned come talk area and
also Daenerys his nephew episode 3 the
big battle the biggest battle which
almost all of the major characters
survive and it is resolved when
re-establish and I came with a special
blade and then they do the fantasy trope
thing of you know oh you killed the main
one the Eye of Sauron is exploded so all
of the the orcs are dead now so yeah so
that that's the end of that I guess no
more ice zombies really and we still
have three episodes to go 90 minutes
each oh good
episode 4 I want to die time to head
south and conquer Cersei only on the way
hot topic pirate shoots one of those
indestructible dragons out of the sky
with a them with two million-to-one
shots from a mile away
which the dragons did not see also
somehow they captured Daenerys as
gal-pal but no one else and guess what
happens to her yep yep also everyone
kind of wants to do some treason on
Daenerys for some reason even though she
is by this point done nothing wrong have
you considered the best route it might
be someone who doesn't want to rule
we're discussing treason she's like a
little war hero but Lord dr. Evil's like
hmm I don't know I was supporting her
for like half of the entire show but
yeah I got a hunch he's tempered and
measured he's a man which makes it more
appealing to the Lords of Westeros
episode 5 kill me time to invade King's
Landing but not before burning lord dr.
evil alive because he's doing some
treason the invasion
and it is absurdly one-sided and easy
turns out it does not matter at all that
Daenerys lost half her forces or two of
her dragons they invade the city in like
90 seconds and Tyrians like okay when
they ring the bells bringing the bells
before the bouncy ring the bells later
the bells ring if the city surrenders
they will ring the bells and raise the
gates I've always hated the bells they
ring for horror a dead King a city under
siege
that welcoming a new kick
I've never known bells to mean surrender
if the city surrenders they will ring
the bells and raise the gates and then
the bells ring and then Daenerys is like
no I think I'm gonna go do some war
crimes and then like does 9/11 times 100
9/11 times a hundred Jesus that's yes 91
thousand 100 episode six I long for
death triumph of the will shots all
around Danny does her big fascism speech
and scary foreign language and Nazi
clothes
I'm the only non-white characters left
in the show are the people who are
really into it
Tyrians like well the madness has taken
her we should probably put her down like
Old Yeller terrible thing I'm asking
it's so sue the right thing and Jon Snow
who has done nothing all season but say
she's my queen she is my queen is like
no but then he goes and puts her down
like Old Yeller
her one surviving dragon in a fit of
rage burns not the person responsible
for her murder but the symbolism and
then he flies away with her corpse there
is a trial in which the prisoner is
allowed to nominate the new king which
no one has discussed in the intervening
months apparently and who has a better
story and bran the broken and yeah the
the omniscient guy ends up on the throne
and we get our John Hughes ending where
the Kingslayer and the Queen Slayer just
gets to go up north to snow chela and
and all of these people whose God Queen
has been murdered by this guy or like
well okay I guess we'll agree to
disagree and birthright monarchy is over
we have aristocratic Oleg our key now
instead which is totally better the end
so the ending was um was bad it was
quite bad but the ending was in fairness
foreshadowed by other things being bad
so it's not original of me to suggest
that Game of Thrones took a sharp dive
in quality after season 4 some have
blamed that on the show running out of
source material others have said as much
as the lack of interesting new
characters as all your faves were
rapidly dying off which they weren't
really in the books whatever I'm not
here for that
so what really changed well as I see it
there were two main storytelling
component shifts one that characters
let's take for instance Tyrion who are
defined by their intelligence and
ability to read the writing on the wall
as far as Westerosi politics go my
brother has his sword and I have my mind
and the mind needs books like a sword
needs a whetstone suddenly he had to
take a whole bunch of stupid pills in
order for the plot to get where it
needed to be and number two where an
earlier seasons the plot was highly
motivated by the social trends of its
fictional world see the rise in
religious extremism in season 5 the show
completely opted to ignore them in later
seasons because it was simply
inconvenient to the plot writer in
researcher is a nip to fakie wrote a
blog entry for Scientific American in
what she posited that the shift line in
the fact the first few seasons were
dominated by sociologically driven
storytelling ie characters responding to
a broad physical and social institution
and that the latter seasons were driven
by psychologically driven storytelling
as in driven by the characters
themselves and therefore we're more in
line with typical Hollywood storytelling
I half agree with this the show's plot
and point of view has always been
extremely character driven and always
extremely in line with Hollywood's
storytelling in that way the plot is
driven by a few powerful people trying
to figure out how best to manipulate the
society they lived in to their will when
you play the game of Thrones you win you
die but I will agree that earlier
seasons had the main characters making
decisions less based on personal whims
and more in response to social trends
the
war politics religion and so on but
really where things fall apart can be
traced to one underlying main problem
the showrunners had a destination in
mind and a set length of time to get
there meaning they had to bend the
character actions and world around the
destination rather than allowing the
characters in the world to reach the
destination organically but the problem
is the characters they wrote kind of
developed a life of their own and the
characters in the show are not the same
characters as the characters in the
books some see this [__] as a
problem of having a planned ending
although I personally think you always
kind of need to have a good idea of
where you're going in a series it's just
that whenever you're working towards an
ending you kind of have to accept that
you might not get there the way that you
think you will or in how long you think
it will take right buddy
seems take time to write it 1,500 babies
well how people can't even read them so
before we really get into where we got
first let's talk about how we got here
[Music]
so stop me if you've heard this about
Game of Thrones it's fantasy for people
who don't like fantasy this was a
popular selling point in the press back
in the show's first few seasons and
given the different landscape of the
time it's easy to see why fantasy did
well at film television not so much when
Game of Thrones debuted prestige soprano
style television that happened to also
be genre fiction was mostly non-existent
and/or relegated to cable networks like
sci-fi then called the sci-fi channel it
was a kind of thing that had a cult
following on LiveJournal not the kind of
thing your cousin Brian who still
tailgates at Penn State despite having
graduated a decade ago would have any
interest in discussing at the family
reunion this dichotomy is of course
complete nonsense
there isn't anything appreciably
non-fantasy about A Song of Ice and Fire
that sets it apart from the rest of the
genre but try telling cousin Brian that
in 2010 but only nerds appreciate that
kind of nuance so in order for a fantasy
show to be worth the time and interest
of non John Ruffins on a premium
subscription channel it can't just be
regular fantasy with its you know
wizards of great import and prophecies
and heroes what were destined No it had
to be hot fantasy that [__] the word of
mouth narrative around the show quickly
devolved into a message of see how Game
of Thrones subverts fantasy expectations
because we've never read a fantasy book
besides Lord of the Rings before see
this isn't your wide-eyed brotherhood of
man too much hugging and forehead
kissing fantasy for nerds this is
hardcore violent darkly cynical titty
besotted fantasy hot fantasy that [__]
beg jobs for Betsy and it's it's Game of
Thrones also came about at the dawn of
what has become to be known as the
golden age of television we could go on
for a while as to the validity of this
label but for now let's just take for
granted that yeah yeah sure this is the
golden age of television here we are
this is a
we what does that mean broadly the
golden age of television is marked by a
period of serialized prestige drama that
debatably began with The Sopranos and
has now become an oversaturated market
with not only cable and premium channels
ie HBO and Showtime
but with streaming venues themselves
less encumbered with budgetary
constraints like Amazon and Netflix not
only piggybacking off of the success of
premium cable but sometimes outshining
it we've hit a period of over saturation
that is referred to by some as peak TV
and while that might lead to some truly
excellent polished high budget art that
we've genuinely never seen before
the push for networks is more to become
the next big thing so when you're
writing your series novel comic TV
whatever there are broadly two ways you
can go about it you know the ending or
you don't
Breaking Bad is widely considered to
have one of the best most coherent most
satisfying finales and all of prestige
television according to creator Vince
Gilligan it was designed to be closed
ended and not have even the possibility
of going on indefinitely it's really
incumbent upon us to bring it to as
satisfying a conclusion as possible and
the only way we'll have a chance at
doing that is to know exactly when it is
that we're going to end and also to have
that ending not be too far off in the
future on the other side of the coin you
have shows like Dexter and lost where
the showrunners had no end game plan and
lost is perhaps the most emblematic of
the problem of a concept with no end
game in mind JJ Abrams is infamous for
his mystery box approach to storytelling
that presenting an audience with a
tantalizing mystery let's say about
someone's mysterious parentage for my
family
they'll be back is a great way to keep
them engaged whether you know the
solution to that mystery or not but
planned finales can also create problems
box writer Emily vanderwerff wrote about
the danger of planned finales in the
wake of Game of Thrones she points to
Breaking Bad as an example of a show
that found a way to thread the needle of
planned finale with the organic
storytelling that comes with television
and after Gilligan and company
meticulously plotted season 2 they more
or less plotted the rest of the show on
the fly
according to vanderwerff this is the
paradox of TV you'd think that having a
satisfying ending would require having a
rock-solid plan to get to that ending
but the opposite is often
true because the more you know about how
a story is going to play out in the
macro the more the micro just becomes a
series of items checked off a list
knowing the goal you are working towards
is great but only if you leave room for
the fact that characters and the
relationships can change during the life
of the show even if you totally know
where the show is going so with Game of
Thrones that was a benefit and a
handicap the showrunners knew where they
were going even if the actors didn't
John's eyes open as well already Fillion
tears for a moment neither movies as if
moving will make this real we see John
with his hands still on the hilt of the
dagger he just lodged in Danny's heart
her strength leaves her and she
collapses to the marble he keeps her in
his arms and she falls and in raises his
sword to strike but something is
hurtling toward him out of the dark my
Queens nature's standing before the iron
throne
Danny steps forward and runs their
knives into him he takes more punishment
than Hodor took at the door then Barret
took in the gray and in broad strokes I
don't doubt that where D&D ended up was
where Martin intended to go however they
create big problems in that taking
shortcuts making character changes and
cutting certain characters and subplots
altogether they've written a different
story to the one that Martin wrote their
characters are different characters than
the ones Martin was writing Cersei is
different Daenerys is different Tyrion
is way different damn you Peter Dinklage
for just being so ding ding dong
charismatic and handsome
[Music]
we can't make him the bad guy who cares
if he strangled his lover in a jealous
rage
or in self-defense as it is in the show
I guess that's what we're going with I'm
sorry yeah see the way this art played
out was a red flag this scene makes no
sense given how both Tyrion and Shaye
evolved away from their characterization
in the book I have yours you are mine
while still getting their book ending so
the showrunners were given a destination
but when the showed they wrote in the
characters they created kind of went in
directions that did not work with that
predetermined destination or at least
we're going to have to take a very
different way to get there who cares
let's do it anyway so no discussion
about prestige television is complete
without a talk about The Sopranos and
this will spoil how the Sopranos end so
fair warning you know I still have
people asking me what the hell was that
last episode yeah
The Sopranos begin the era of prestige
television drama in earnest
like Game of Thrones it was a massive
critical darling and commercial success
out of the gate so like Game of Thrones
when The Sopranos ended after six
seasons there was a lot of buildup for
how it would end
would one of Tony's many enemies gunned
him down would he slaughter all of his
enemies in some Pyrrhic victory how
would his relationship with dr. Melfi
play out would he walk away from the
life altogether we get answers to some
of these questions dr. Melfi cuts him
off when she realizes Tony as a lost
cause and Tony does not walk away from
the life the final scene in the show
takes place at a diner where Tony is
scheduled to meet his family for a
regular dinner
Carmela shows up his daughter has some
difficulty parking but then we noticed
that several of the other patrons in the
diner are acting kind of suspicious and
giving Tony the side-eye journey's don't
stop believin increases in volume to the
point that it's almost overwhelming
there's this really dissonant dark
comedic tone the scene is building and
building in tension and then it cuts to
black and that is the end of The
Sopranos and as with Game of Thrones 12
years later people lost their [__]
made a lot of people angry creator David
Chase knew how it was going to end for a
while saying no one was trying to be
audacious honest to god we did what we
thought we had to do no one was trying
to blow people's minds or thinking wow
this will piss him off people get the
impression that you're trying to [__]
with them and it's not true I actually
really liked the ending of The Sopranos
I think it works both matically and
dramatically Tony might have died in the
moment it cut to black or he may just
have had a boring dinner but as long as
he's stuck in that life he'll always be
living on a knife's edge I've done
anything differently with the ending of
the show I don't think so but The
Sopranos set the stage for memorable
endings and another lesson was learned
here the wrong one in my opinion a
memorable even controversial ending is
the same as a good one fan service also
merits discussion here because fans in
recent years have had a much more active
role in shaping media typically the
longer a thing goes the more fan service
gets jammed in to keep people engaged
and not all fan service is bad one of
the positive changes from the books is
the fight between Brienne and the Hound
in season four you're the wrong one to
watch over her that's what you're doing
watching over
that's what I'm doing in the book The
Hound goes down from blood poisoning
from a stupid wound he gets in a bar
fight
but in the show you have two characters
you both care about fighting over Arya
to the death like I want them both did
we no no my children I'm screaming
so cleganebowl
[Music]
this needs to tow who's at best
cleganebowl is slash was a fan theory
that combine both book and TV lore a lot
of internet meme culture and the burning
desire to see this giant man kicked the
ass of this other giant man and a
revenge fight so epic that it would rock
the foundations of Westeros itself you
know is coming for you you've almost
known yet see the Hound looks the way he
does and is afraid of fire because his
brother the mountain shoved his face
into a fire when they were kids and ever
since then he's wanted him some revenge
for that and some other things all about
that revenge just really really hates
that mountain that riots hates him my
brothers alive hates in the Hound we
come across my brother maybe we can both
cross the name off a list once revenge
and well yeah the meme itself was a lot
of fun and we got hype and everything is
a dramatic plot point it's um it's
really [__] dumb one not only is the
mountain functionally dead by this point
like Oberyn Martell killed him and what
we have now is basically just a dead a
mindless zombie that does whatever
Cersei says but to the books make it
pretty clear that Sandor is finally at
peace with himself and his need for
revenge the gods are real lamb they
punish me they have revenge being
mistaken for justice is a big thing in
the books and we will get to that later
his arc wasn't about getting revenge it
was about moving past that in the show I
you can still help a lot more than
you've harmed again it's not too late
for you never too late to stop robbing
people to stop killing people start
helping people never too late to come
back one season
later you know is coming for you you've
always known one season later who was
forcing you to do this he's easily Kazan
he's dead he's a shell he's a zombie
Clegane bull happens while Daenerys is
doing some war crimes and King's Landing
is burning they're fighting for nothing
the hound has long since moved on this
has not been his motivation for a while
Gregor is an empty zombie shell and the
world is ending outside and everyone
here is about to die anyway so who cares
The Hound isn't even fighting for Arya
he's not protecting anyone look at me
look at me you want to be like me you
two wrote a thousand miles on horseback
together and you only now decide to have
this conversation
go home go I'll go get her I wanted us
right
[Applause]
also Aria murdered all of House Lord
Life Alert and baked them into pies and
fed them to their father and pretty sure
her revenge quest is shot the moon in
comparison to yours sir I know sir
so click gamble had no reason to exist
other than the concept becoming mimetic
on a god tier level yeah that's you
that's what you've always been
[Music]
fanservice also comes with the
double-edged sword of in this case the
show's self-imposed burden of needing to
be smarter than the fans which becomes
harder and harder in a world with
massive subreddits dedicated to
theorizing about the thing in incredible
detail so somewhere along the lines the
burning expectation stopped being a
thing one did because it benefited the
story and more a thing one did because
well we hope to kind of avoid the
expected she seemed like the best
candidate provided we weren't thinking
about her in that moment this isn't
necessarily unique to Game of Thrones
Westworld creator and showrunner
Jonathan Nolan admitted that an episode
from season two had to be rewritten
after reddit fans guessed a major
upcoming twist reddit has already
figured out the third episode twist said
Nolan so we're changing that right now
it's annoying sometimes when people
guess the twists and then blog about it
you can't complain when people are that
engaged he added it's very gratifying
but stop doing it please I can't help
but think that fans should be allowed to
like gathering groups online and
theorize and have fun without networks
like watching in and going oh no they
figured us out we better go change the
show because we only exist to outsmart
reddit like you don't have to be
unexpected for the sake of being
unexpected but when your show is kind of
known for that we hope to kind of avoid
the expector these people have guessed
the secret that I'm gonna reveal in book
6 people have already guessed that here
and to is just out you really have two
choices there you can ignore it and
proceed with your plan despite the fact
that some people know where you're going
or you can get old panicky and say oh my
god they figured it out I can't let that
be I'll have to change it I'll have to
go in a different direction and I think
some writers do that and I think that's
always a mistake yeah you know if you've
planned your book that the butler did it
and then you read an Internet someone
has figured out that the butler did it
and you suddenly change in midstream and
it was the chambermaid who did it then
you screw up the whole book so I'm not
saying that
Benioff and DB Weiss were writing the
show with the intention of both
indulging in fanservice while also
avoiding correct fan theories I'm just
saying this culture inevitably
influences and infiltrates the writing
of a show that was already handicapping
itself by limiting its runtime for no
reason except that you're really over
the show that made you famous and you
got a star War II you need to go ruin I
mean make why is it ending I don't know
ask Dave and Dan when they come through
we could have gone to eleven twelve
thirteen seasons but they I guess they
wanted a life the journalist who
reported that quote from Benioff
diplomatically described his reaction to
it as frustrated in hindsight that's a
bit of an understatement seeing as
anything mad at coherence in the series
fell apart after Martin stopped being
actively involved in the production
after wouldn't you know season four what
are the odds but to me it betrays a
certain lack of curiosity on the part of
Benioff and Weiss and it makes me wonder
why are they even dedicating their lives
to storytelling if they are so
uninterested in themes especially given
that they adapted a book that was so
heavy with them what unites people
armies gold
stories there's nothing in the world
more powerful than a good story yeah so
this series functionally ends with these
two chuckle [__] like fetishizing
storytellers is the most important
people to ever exist but yeah themes are
for eighth grade book reports we want to
avoid the expected because that means
it's bad okay and who has a better story
and brand the broken so you might be
asking did you really just spend 45
minutes whinging not winded
your lips are moving and you're
complaining about something that's
winning and you didn't even get into any
specifics yep
yeah we got about 10,000 words worth of
our whinging that's winning in our
Google Doc before we realize that this
was this is gonna be two-parter yep it's
two-parter sorry and this part is the
sponsored part are you interested in
somatic coherence do you have a book
report you need to write are you in the
8th grade
don't have time to read the Song of Ice
and Fire well why not listen to it using
audible audible members now get more
than ever before members choose three
titles every month one audiobook plus
two audible originals that you can't
hear anywhere else members also have
unlimited access to more than a hundred
audio guided fitness and meditation
programs I love those and you might be
like Game of Thrones is 33 hours long
and it's alone do which I say the first
book I recommended for audible was
Disney War and that sucker is three
hours longer and it's also 33% shorter
if you listen to it at 1.5 times speed
like I do right now I'm listening to the
Hugo nominees for best novel if you
didn't hear Angelina and I are actually
nominated for a Hugo this year for our
Hobbit duology hey I might get to meet
george RR martin at his losers party oh
no I'm going to let best-selling author
John Green deliver the URL information
for how you could start listening with
the 30-day trial and your first
audiobook is free you can go to
audible.com slash Lindsey Ellis that's
audible.com slash Lindsey Ellis to get
your first audiobook free or or
or or text text wimzie Ellis - 500 500
that's Lindsay with an A Ellis with an E
and an i - Alice and an S - 500 500 and
get your first audio book free I'm glad
they let me keep the same URL
[Music]
this needs to Thomas
talker